they are Elite schools expensive and
prestigious they believe a Hallmark of a
quality education just in the last few
days schools in Arizona Massachusetts
and Pennsylvania have cleared protesters
from their camps many pushed into it by
donors angry at disruption that's been
created so close to graduation
ceremonies if you look at what's
happening throughout um the US I think
it's clear look at the case of har the
case of Mill you know the donors made
their the opinions very very clear and
also their agenda is very clear that
they feel that they can indeed you know
direct our curricula they can direct our
collaborations most protesters want
universities like GW here in Washington
to cut all ties with Israel and to
divest that means taking money from
donors that has been invested and
pulling it from funds linked to Israel
or the US defense industry companies
like rthor and McDonald Douglas but the
universities have to walk a very fine
line because some people say their money
will dry up if there is no change in
policy this is a tough spot for
University leaders um it is has the
potential to threaten their standing
with big donors who are more liberal um
and in some of these conservative States
could put them on the wrong side of
state legislatures that is a not a great
place for a university leader to be
universities have been forced into
action before the divest Ed from links
with apartheid South Africa in the 70s
and ' 80s from fossil fuels at the turn
of the century from Russia after the
Ukraine Invasion two years ago I would
like to see a student committee be a
part of that investment committee
decision-making process because of this
kind of question this isn't the only
time these kinds of controversies have
Arisen they're just the more public of
what's gone on in the last couple of
decades and I do believe students ought
to be a part of this the investment
funds can run to tens of millions of
dollars for example Harvard has $50
billion gathered from supporters and
backers and previous Investments the
largest Fund in America some
universities have committed to
divestment others have offered to
discuss and consider it that's been
enough to Hal protests
sh but for those still refusing they
face more disruption and protests as
students continue to largely peacefully
push their case Alan Fischer Al jazer
Washington
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer